# Guided Practice for Section 2.4: Quantifiers and Negations

## Overview 
In this section, we finally get aroud to learning about the concept of quantifying a statement — telling whether the statement is true for all objects of a certain type (a **universally quantified** statement) or just for one object (an **existentially  quantified** statement) . The subject of quantification has come up before in discussing the negation of a conditional statement, and in this section we’ll make that connection precise. Namely, we’ll see how every conditional statement can be written as a universally quantified statement, and we’ll see how in general a quantified statement can be negated. We’ll also explore statements with two quantifiers in them. 

## Learning objectives
* Define the terms "universal quantifier" and "existential quantifier"; identify these quantifiers in practice and use correct notation to denote them.
* Determine whether a quantified statement is true or false.
* Phrase both universally and existentially quantified statements in several different English formats.
* Find a counterexample for a (false) universally quantified statement.
* Form the negation of universally quantified and existentially quantified statements; write these negations in forms that do not use the negation symbol. 
* Rewrite a conditional statement as a universally quantified statement.
* Construct examples and non-examples of definitions that involve quantified statements.
* Phrase doubly-quantified statements in English, and determine if such statements are true or false.
* Form the negation of a doubly-quantified statement.


## Resources for reading and viewing
*Reading:* **Read pages 63–74 in the textbook**. Remember that “reading” means not only attending to the words on the page but also interacting with the worked-out examples and trying the progress checks. You can try some exercises too if you’re up for it. 

*Viewing:* Watch the following screencasts, which run a total of 20 minutes, 7 seconds:  

* [Quantified statements](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6qTzP03waOA) (10:06)
* [Negating quantified statements](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MC4yHkeahAQ) (10:01)

**Note**: There’s less video this time, but not all concepts are covered in the video. In particular, the last two Learning Objectives concerning double-quantified statements are not covered in the videos; please read the textbook for those examples. 

## Practice 

1. Work Preview Activity 1 parts 1, 3, 6, 7, 9, and 10. . Be sure to show work and explain reasoning. 
2. Work Preview Activity 2 (both parts).  Be sure to show work and explain reasoning. 
3. What questions or comments do you have about the content in Section 2.4? 
 
## Specifications

* Please **write up your responses to Practice 1–2**. Please use software to type up your responses this time; no handwritten work will be accepted. If you want to use LaTeX, see the Piazza thread on “Learning “LaTeX” about using LaTeX. There is a LaTeX template on Blackboard near this Guided Practice assignment that has a sample truth table you can modify. **Hand this paper in at the beginning of class on September 12**. 
* For Practice 3 (your questions or comments), there is a discussion thread set up on Piazza for this item. **Go to Piazza, find the thread, and leave your question or comment no later than 8:00am on September 12**. Please leave *something* and don’t say “I have no questions”. The question/comment you leave needs to be about the section, not about the class. 

## Questions?
Leave questions or comments on Piazza and make sure to tag your questions with #gp2.4. 