# Guided Practice for Section 2.2: Logically Equivalent Statements

## Overview 
In the work for Section 2.1 we found that sometimes statements that appear different actually mean the same thing logically, because their truth tables are identical. In this section we make this concept formal by defining **logical equivalence** of statements. We’ll look at two variations on conditional statements — the **converse** and **contrapositive** — and see which of these is logically equivalent to the original statement. We’ll also see how to form the negation of a conditional statement and learn that this is *not* another conditional statement. Finally, we’ll derive and use several rules for transforming a compound statement into a new statement that looks different but is logically equivalent to the statement it came from. 

## Learning objectives
* Use truth tables to determine if two statements are logically equivalent.
* State the converse and contrapositive of a conditional statement.
* State DeMorgan's Laws and apply them to simplify a statement involving negations and either conjunctions or disjunctions.
* Derive, state and use the results of Theorem 2.6.
* Form the negation of a conditional statement.
* Use previously-established logical equivalencies to determine if two statements are logically equivalent.
* Derive, state, and use the results of Theorem 2.8 (Important Logical Equivalencies).

## Resources for reading and viewing
*Reading:* Read pages 43–48 in the textbook. Remember that “reading” means not only attending to the words on the page but also interacting with the worked-out examples and trying the progress checks. You can try some exercises too if you’re up for it. 

*Viewing:* Watch the following screencasts, which run a total of 26 minutes, 40 seconds:  

* [Logical equivalence](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oY8Xt5GvZ1g) (8:03)
* [Converse and contrapositive](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wEyRz5H6RIU) (7:00)
* [Negations of conditional statements](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eUDz2Cgoty0) (4:29)
* [Logical equivalence without truth tables](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iPbLzl2kMHA) (7:08)

## Practice 

1. Work Preview Activity 1 parts 1, 2 and 3 only. Be sure to show work and explain reasoning. 
2. Work Preview Activity 2 (all parts). Be sure to show work and explain reasoning. 
3. What questions or comments do you have about the content in Section 2.2? 
 
## Specifications

* Please **write up your responses to Practice 1–2**. Please use software to type up your responses this time; no handwritten work will be accepted. See the Piazza thread on “Learning “LaTeX” about using LaTeX; there is a LaTeX template on Blackboard near this Guided Practice assignment that has a sample truth table you can modify. **Hand this paper in at the beginning of class on September 7**. 
* For Practice 3 (your questions or comments), there is a discussion thread set up on Piazza for this item. **Go to Piazza, find the thread, and leave your question or comment no later than 8:00am on September 7**. Please leave *something* and don’t say “I have no questions”. The question/comment you leave needs to be about the section, not about the class. 

## Questions?
Leave questions or comments on Piazza and make sure to tag your questions with #gp2.2. 