# Guided Practice for Section 3.4: Proof using cases

## Overview 
Have you ever felt, when you’re proving a statement, that you just don’t seem to have enough information to work with, and if we just had one more additional assumption we could make, then things could start moving? Well, you’re in luck! In this section we’re going to take a look at a way to break certain a proposition into a finite number of **cases** which allow us to have additional structure to do just that. 

## Learning objectives
* Explain the basic concept and strategy behind a proof using cases.
* Give examples of situations in which using cases in a proof might be appropriate, and give the cases appropriate for each such situation.
* Construct correct proofs using cases for a proposition when it makes sense to do so, including: proofs involving even/odd integers, proofs involving rational/irrational numbers, and proofs involving absolute values. 

## Resources for reading and viewing
*Reading:* **Read pages 131–136 in the textbook**. Remember that “reading” means not only attending to the words on the page but also interacting with the worked-out examples and trying the progress checks. You can try some exercises too if you’re up for it. 

*Viewing:* Watch the following screencasts, the first three of which run for a total of about 21 minutes:  

* [Proof by cases, part 1](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zmMk_YITBIo) (Example involving even/odd cases) (4:48)
* [Proof by cases, part 2](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1fPuxqALE9E) (Example involving absolute value) (8:41)
* [Proof by cases, part 3](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wH8YiS5wVn4) (Example involving divisiblity and remainders)  (7:51)
* [Proof by cases, part 4](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hq8g4AK6MzY&list=PL2419488168AE7001&index=46) (Example involving integer/noninteger cases) (7:53)

## Practice exercises
1. Take a look at exercise 2 on page 138. Assuming the proof of this proposition can be done using cases, what do you think the cases will be? Note that in this proposition we assume that *u* is odd, so the cases will not be *u* even/*u* odd. 
2. Take a look at exercise 8 on page 138. Given the way that the proposition is stated, how do you think you would approach the proof of this statement — with a direct proof, a proof by contraposition, or a proof by contradiction? Why? And then, how would this proof involve cases once you have made the preceding choice? 
3. What questions or comments do you have about the content in Section 3.4? 

 
## Specifications

* Please **write up your responses to Practice exercises 1–2**. Please use software to type up your responses this time; no handwritten work will be accepted. If you want to use LaTeX, see the Piazza thread on “Learning “LaTeX” about using LaTeX. There is a LaTeX template on Blackboard near this Guided Practice assignment that has a sample truth table you can modify. **Hand this paper in at the beginning of class on September 26**. 
* For Practice exercise 4 (your questions or comments), there is a discussion thread set up on Piazza for this item. **Go to Piazza, find the thread, and leave your question or comment no later than 8:00am on September 26**. 

## Questions?
Leave questions or comments on Piazza and make sure to tag your questions with #gp3.4.  