# Guided Practice for Section 3.5: The Division Algorithm

## Overview 
This last section of Chapter 3 introduces an important mathematical result called the **Division Algorithm**. The Division Algorithm is a basic and fundamental idea behind the properties of integers and integer arithmetic. For us, this theorem will bring together two ideas --- divisibility of integers, and proof by cases --- we've previously seen and give us a tool for setting up cases in certain kinds of proofs. We also make precise a process for finding the least nonnegative residue of an integer modulo another integer. 

## Learning objectives
* State the Division Algorithm and use it to write an integer as a combination of a quotient and remainder.
* Construct  a correct proof using cases where the cases are created by the remainder in the Division Algorithm.
* Derive, state, and use the results of Theorems 3.28 and 3.30 (Properties of Congruence Modulo n).
* Construct  a correct proof using cases where the cases are created by congruence modulo n.

## Resources for reading and viewing
*Reading:* **Read pages 141--152 in the textbook**. Remember that “reading” means not only attending to the words on the page but also interacting with the worked-out examples and trying the progress checks. You can try some exercises too if you’re up for it. **Note especially: The third learning objective above (deriving Theorems 3.28 and 3.30) are left entirely in the reading this time. There are no videos for that objective.**

*Viewing:* Watch the following screencasts, the first three of which run for a total of about 21 minutes:  

* [The Division Algorithm](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XHjSy_MT7u0) (6:52)
* [Using the Division Algorithm to Set Up Proof Cases](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Er7uFdtVSK8) (6:45)
* The Division Algorithm and Integer Congruence
* [Application to Cryptography](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cNJqWyQ4PaQ) (6:25)

## Practice exercises
1. Choose a five-digit number and a two-digit number at random. Call the first (big) number *x* and the second (smaller) number *y*. Find the integers *q* and *r* guaranteed by the Division Algorithm such that x = yq + r. Give an explanation of your reasoning, or show some math work. What does your result say about the least nonnegative residue of x modulo y? 
2. The statement of the Division Algorithm specifies that the numbers a and b are integers and that b > 0, but otherwise no restriction is placed on a or b. All the examples in the screencasts had a being a large number and b being a small number (for example, a = 345 and b = 8) but does this have to be the case? What happens in the Division Algorithm if a is less than b? What happens if a = 0? 
3. What questions or comments do you have about the content in Section 3.5? 

 
## Specifications

* Please **write up your responses to Practice exercises 1–2**. Please use software to type up your responses this time; no handwritten work will be accepted. If you want to use LaTeX, see the Piazza thread on “Learning “LaTeX” about using LaTeX. There is a LaTeX template on Blackboard near this Guided Practice assignment that has a sample truth table you can modify. **Hand this paper in at the beginning of class on October 3**. 
* For Practice exercise 4 (your questions or comments), there is a discussion thread set up on Piazza for this item. **Go to Piazza, find the thread, and leave your question or comment no later than 8:00am on October 3**. 

## Questions?
Leave questions or comments on Piazza and make sure to tag your questions with #gp3.5.  