# Guided Practice for Section 6.2: More About Functions

## Overview 
Section 6.2 extends the ideas of functions developed in 6.1 to discuss two main concepts: What it means for two functions to be **equal**, and functions that involve **integer congruence**. 

## Learning objectives
* State what it means for two functions to be equal, and either prove or disprove that two functions are equal.
* State and instantiate the "identity function" on a set.
* Work with functions involving congruences, mathematical processes, matrices, and sequences.
* Work with functions having more than one input.

## Resources for reading and viewing
*Reading:* **Read pages 307-311** in the Sundstrom textbook. This is only the material on injective functions. Remember to read the proofs carefully — these are additional examples for your benefit — and try the Progress Checks. 

*Viewing:* View the following screencasts, which run for a total of 21 minutes, 44 seconds. Note: The “Function Example” videos do not need to be viewed in order. 

* [Equality of functions](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OolikZ6xZMQ&list=PL2419488168AE7001&index=85&feature=plpp_video) (11:25)
* [Functions involving congruences](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gJd56pwX_K0&list=PL2419488168AE7001&index=86&feature=plpp_video) (10:19)

## Practice exercises

Go to this web form to see the exercises and enter your responses: 
 
There is also a Piazza thread, as usual, for you to submit your questions and comments on this section. 

 
## Specifications

Please **write up your responses to Practice exercises 1–2 using the web form** and **enter your questions and comments on Piazza** no later than 8:00am on October 31. 
 
## Questions?
Leave questions or comments on Piazza and make sure to tag your questions with #gp6.2. 